# 128. 最长连续序列

[](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/longest-consecutive-sequence/)


128. Longest Consecutive Sequence
优解：使用hashset和hashmap均可
/**
 *
 */
package array;

import java.util.HashMap;
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

/**
 * @author lishuai
 * @data 2016-12-1 下午4:53:36
 */

public class LongestConsecutiveSequence {

    /**
     * @author lishuai
     * @data 2016-12-1 下午4:53:36
Given an unsorted array of integers, find the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence.

For example,
Given [100, 4, 200, 1, 3, 2],
The longest consecutive elements sequence is [1, 2, 3, 4]. Return its length: 4.

Your algorithm should run in O(n) complexity.
     */

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // TODO Auto-generated method stub

        int[] a={100, 4, 200, 1, 3, 2};
        System.out.println(longestConsecutive2(a));
    }
    /**
We will use HashMap.
The key thing is to keep track of the sequence length and store that in the boundary points of the sequence.
For example, as a result, for sequence {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, map.get(1) and map.get(5) should both return 5.

Whenever a new element n is inserted into the map, do two things:

See if n - 1 and n + 1 exist in the map, and if so, it means there is an existing sequence next to n.
Variables left and right will be the length of those two sequences,
 while 0 means there is no sequence and n will be the boundary point later.
 Store (left + right + 1) as the associated value to key n into the map.
Use left and right to locate the other end of the sequences to the left and right of n respectively,
and replace the value with the new length.
Everything inside the for loop is O(1) so the total time is O(n).
     */
    // 1HashMap
    public static int longestConsecutive(int[] nums) {
        int res = 0;
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();
        for (int n : nums) {
            if (!map.containsKey(n)) {
                int left = (map.containsKey(n - 1)) ? map.get(n - 1) : 0;
                int right = (map.containsKey(n + 1)) ? map.get(n + 1) : 0;
                // sum: length of the sequence n is in
                int sum = left + right + 1;
                map.put(n, sum);

                // keep track of the max length
                res = Math.max(res, sum);

                // extend the length to the boundary(s)
                // of the sequence
                // will do nothing if n has no neighbors
                map.put(n - left, sum);
                map.put(n + right, sum);
            }else {
                // duplicates
                continue;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }

    /**
 First turn the input into a set of numbers. That takes O(n) and then we can ask in O(1) whether we have a certain number.

Then go through the numbers. If the number n is the start of a streak (i.e., n-1 is not in the set),
then test m = n+1, n+2, n+3, ... and stop at the first number m not in the set.
The length of the streak is then simply m-n and we update our global best with that.
Since we check each streak only once, this is overall O(n). This ran in 44 ms on the OJ,
  one of the fastest Python submissions.
     */
    //2 HashSet
    public static int longestConsecutive1(int[] nums) {
        Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>();
        for(int n : nums) {
            set.add(n);
        }
        int best = 0;
        for(int n : set) {
            if(!set.contains(n - 1)) {  // only check for one direction
                int m = n + 1;
                while(set.contains(m)) {
                    m++;
                }
                best = Math.max(best, m - n);
            }
        }
        return best;
    }



    public static int longestConsecutive2(int[] nums) {
        int best=0;
        Set<Integer> set=new HashSet<Integer>();
        for(int i:nums){
            set.add(i);
        }
        for(int n:set){
            if(!set.contains(n-1)){
                int m=n+1;
                while(set.contains(m)){
                    m++;
                }
                best=Math.max(best, m-n);
            }
        }   
        return best;
    }


}

