# 187. 重复的DNA序列
[](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/repeated-dna-sequences/)

187. Repeated DNA Sequences
关键点是借助两个set判断是否出现两次以上  
通过使用位编码减少存储所暂用的空间
/**
 *
 */
package hashtable;

import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Set;

/**
 * @author lishuai
 * @data 2016-12-28 下午5:03:34
 */

public class RepeatedDNASequences {

    /**
     * @author lishuai
     * @data 2016-12-28 下午5:03:34
All DNA is composed of a series of nucleotides abbreviated as A, C, G, and T,
for example: "ACGAATTCCG". When studying DNA, it is sometimes useful to identify repeated sequences
within the DNA.

Write a function to find all the 10-letter-long sequences (substrings)
that occur more than once in a DNA molecule.

For example,

Given s = "AAAAACCCCCAAAAACCCCCCAAAAAGGGTTT",

Return:
["AAAAACCCCC", "CCCCCAAAAA"].
     */

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        findRepeatedDnaSequences("AAAAAAAAAAA");

    }
    /**
The key point is that it is not doing hash,
it is doing the exact coding of a 10-letter sequence into a 4-bytes number,
which is simply not possible for any generic string,
but is possible for strings in this problem because they can have only 4 differfent characters.

In more detail:

If two objects have same hash it means that they may or may not be equal
(though two equal objects are required to have same hash).
So hashing is not enough here (like calling just "AACCCCCGGG".hashCode() and storing it in the map),
because there can be another (different) string with same hash and
the program will output wrong result.

We also cannot store the 10-letter substrings themselves
because they consume too much memory and the program will exceed memory limit.

So, instead of hashing or storing strings themselves
the solution converts 10 letter string into 4-bytes integer
(which is much smaller than string in terms of consumed memory).
This would not be possible if the string could contain all 26 letters of English alphabet for example.
 But it is possible for our case, because there can be only 'A', 'C', 'G' and 'T' letters.

So we have only 4 possible letters,
and we can use as little bits as possible to store each character of our 10-letter string.
 We really need only 2 bits (bits, not bytes) for this.
 Specifically the solution uses the following coding:

0 = 00 (bits in binary number system) = 'A'

1 = 01 (bits in binary number system) = 'C'

2 = 10 (bits in binary number system) = 'G'

3 = 11 (bits in binary number system) = 'T'

Note that since there 10 letters and each letter requires only 2 bits,
we will need only 10 * 2= 20 bits to code the string (which is less then size of integer in java
(as well as in all othere popular languages), which is 4 bytes = 32 bits).

For example, this is how "AACCTCCGGT" string will be coded:

A A C C T C C G G T

00 00 01 01 11 01 01 10 10 11 = 00000101110101101011 (binary) = 23915 (decimal)
     */
    //4其实3，4都是和2类似，只不过存储的是字符串编码后的数据而不是原始字符串，减少所用空间，优化代码
    public static List<String> findRepeatedDnaSequences(String s) {
        Set<Integer> words = new HashSet<>();
        Set<Integer> doubleWords = new HashSet<>();
        List<String> rv = new ArrayList<>();
        char[] map = new char[26];
        //map['A' - 'A'] = 0;
        map['C' - 'A'] = 1;
        map['G' - 'A'] = 2;
        map['T' - 'A'] = 3;

        for(int i = 0; i < s.length() - 9; i++) {
            int v = 0;
            for(int j = i; j < i + 10; j++) {
                v <<= 2;
                v |= map[s.charAt(j) - 'A'];
            }
            if(!words.add(v) && doubleWords.add(v)) {
                rv.add(s.substring(i, i + 10));
            }
        }
        return rv;
    }

    //3九章
    public static int encode(String s) {
        int sum = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
            if (s.charAt(i) == 'A') {
                sum = sum * 4;
            } else if (s.charAt(i) == 'C') {
                sum = sum * 4 + 1;
            } else if (s.charAt(i) == 'G') {
                sum = sum * 4 + 2;
            } else {
                sum = sum * 4 + 3;
            }
        }
        return sum;
    }
    public static List<String> findRepeatedDnaSequences3(String s) {
        HashSet<Integer> hash = new HashSet<Integer>();
        HashSet<String> dna = new HashSet<String>();
        for (int i = 9; i < s.length(); i++) {
            String subString = s.substring(i - 9, i + 1);
            int encoded = encode(subString);
            if (hash.contains(encoded)) {
                dna.add(subString);
            } else {
                hash.add(encoded);
            }
        }
        List<String> result = new ArrayList<String>();
        for (String d: dna) {
            result.add(d);
        }
        return result;
    }


    //2
    public static List<String> findRepeatedDnaSequences2(String s) {
        Set<String> seen = new HashSet<>(), repeated = new HashSet<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length() - 9; i++) {
            String ten = s.substring(i, i + 10);
            if (!seen.add(ten)) repeated.add(ten);
        }
        return new ArrayList<String>(repeated);
    }

    //1 Time Limit Exceeded
    public static List<String> findRepeatedDnaSequences1(String s) {
        List<String> res = new ArrayList<>();
        Set<String> set = new HashSet<>();
        if (s == null || s.length() < 11) return res;
        for (int i = 0;i < s.length() - 10;i++) {
            int j = i + 1;
            while (j < s.length()) {
                int index = s.indexOf(s.substring(i,i + 10),j);
                if (index != -1) {
                    set.add(s.substring(i,i + 10));
                    j = index + 10;
                } else break;
            }           
        }
        res.addAll(set);
        return res;       
    }
}

