# 338. 比特位计数

[](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/counting-bits/)


338. Counting Bits
优解：2
/**
 *
 */
package bit;

/**
 * @author lishuai
 * @data 2017-1-5 下午4:25:37
 */

public class CountingBits {

    /**
     * @author lishuai
     * @data 2017-1-5 下午4:25:37
Given a non negative integer number num.
For every numbers i in the range 0 ≤ i ≤ num
calculate the number of 1's in their binary representation and return them as an array.

Example:
For num = 5 you should return [0,1,1,2,1,2].
0        0
1        1
10      2
11      3
100      4
101      5
110      6
111      7

Follow up:

It is very easy to come up with a solution with run time O(n*sizeof(integer)).
 But can you do it in linear time O(n) /possibly in a single pass?
Space complexity should be O(n).
Can you do it like a boss? Do it without using any builtin function like __builtin_popcount
in c++ or in any other language.


Hint:

You should make use of what you have produced already.
Divide the numbers in ranges like [2-3], [4-7], [8-15] and so on. And try to generate new range from previous.
Or does the odd/even status of the number help you in calculating the number of 1s?
     */

    public static void main(String[] args) {


    }
    /**
This uses the hint from the description about using ranges. Basically,
the numbers in one range are equal to 1 plus all of the numbers in the ranges before it.
If you write out the binary numbers, you can see that numbers 8-15 have the same pattern as 0-7
but with a 1 at the front.

My logic was to copy the previous values (starting at 0) until a power of 2 was hit (new range),
at which point we just reset the t pointer back to 0 to begin the new range.
     */
    //3     二指针  3ms  感觉2和3主要思想差不多，根据二进制表示的特点
    public int[] countBits(int num) {
        int[] ret = new int[num+1];
        ret[0] = 0;
        int pow = 1;
        for(int i = 1, t = 0; i <= num; i++, t++) {
            if(i == pow) {
                pow *= 2;
                t = 0;
            }
            ret[i] = ret[t] + 1;
        }
        return ret;
    }
    //2优解 An easy recurrence for this problem is f[i] = f[i / 2] + i % 2.     2ms
    public int[] countBits2(int num) {
        int[] f = new int[num + 1];
        for (int i = 1; i <= num; i++) {
            f[i] = f[i >> 1] + (i & 1);
        }
        return f;
    }
    //1思路：直接使用内建函数统计每个数对应二进制1的个数  3ms(使用内建函数3ms，不使用7ms)
    public static int[] countBits1(int num) {
        int[] res = new int[num + 1];
        for (int i = 0; i <= num; i++) {
            //res[i] = Integer.bitCount(i);
            int count = 0;
            int temp = i;
            while (temp != 0) {
                temp = temp & (temp - 1);
                count++;
            }
            res[i] = count;
        }       
        return res;
    }
    //0 最原始的的方案  24ms O(n*sizeof(integer))
    public int[] countBits0(int num) {
        int[] back=new int[num+1];
        for(int i=0;i<=num;i++){
            String s=Integer.toBinaryString(i);
            char[] c=s.toCharArray();
            int count=0;
            for(int j=0;j<c.length;j++){
                if(c[j]=='1'){
                    count++;
                }
            }
            back[i]=count;
        }

        return back;
    }
}

