# 463. 岛屿的周长

[](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/island-perimeter/)


463. Island Perimeter
优解：方法1
/**
 *
 */
package t;

/**
 * @author lishuai
 * @data 2016-12-15 下午2:58:37
 */

public class IslandPerimeter {

    /**
     * @author lishuai
     * @data 2016-12-15 下午2:58:37
You are given a map in form of a two-dimensional integer grid where 1 represents land and 0 represents water.
Grid cells are connected horizontally/vertically (not diagonally).
The grid is completely surrounded by water, and there is exactly one island (i.e., one or more connected land cells).
The island doesn't have "lakes" (water inside that isn't connected to the water around the island).
 One cell is a square with side length 1. The grid is rectangular, width and height don't exceed 100.
 Determine the perimeter of the island.

Example:

[[0,1,0,0],
 [1,1,1,0],
 [0,1,0,0],
 [1,1,0,0]]

Answer: 16
Explanation: The perimeter is the 16 yellow stripes in the image below:
     */

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int[][] t = {{0,1,0,0},{1,1,1,0},{0,1,0,0},{1,1,0,0}};
        System.out.println(islandPerimeter(t));

    }
    /**
1\loop over the matrix and count the number of islands;
2\if the current dot is an island, count if it has any right neighbour or down neighbour;
3\the result is islands * 4 - neighbours * 2
     */
    //2
    public static int islandPerimeter(int[][] grid) {
        int islands = 0, neighbours = 0;

        for (int i = 0; i < grid.length; i++) {
            for (int j = 0; j < grid[i].length; j++) {
                if (grid[i][j] == 1) {
                    islands++; // count islands
                    if (i < grid.length - 1 && grid[i + 1][j] == 1) neighbours++; // count down neighbours
                    if (j < grid[i].length - 1 && grid[i][j + 1] == 1) neighbours++; // count right neighbours
                }
            }
        }

        return islands * 4 - neighbours * 2;
    }
    //1思路：统计出现1的上下左右的数字，为边界或者为0，周长加1
    public static int islandPerimeter1(int[][] grid) {
        int p = 0;
        int row = grid.length;
        int column = grid[0].length;
        for (int i = 0;i < row;i++) {
            for (int j = 0;j < column;j++) {
                if (grid[i][j] == 1) {
                    if (i - 1 < 0 || grid[i - 1][j] == 0) p +=1;
                    if (i + 1 == row || grid[i + 1][j] == 0) p +=1;
                    if (j -1 < 0 || grid[i][j - 1] == 0) p +=1;
                    if (j + 1 == column || grid[i][j + 1] == 0) p +=1;
                }
            }
        }
        return p;
    }
}


